Frenchy, successful only because there were no longer any
Potemkins or Suvorovs left to oppose him; but he was also convinced
that there were no political difficulties in Europe and no real war,
but only a sort of puppet show at which the men of the day were playing,
pretending to do something real. Prince Andrew gaily bore with his
father's ridicule of the new men, and drew him on and listened to him
with evident pleasure.

"The past always seems good," said he, "but did not Suvorov
himself fall into a trap Moreau set him, and from which he did not know
how to escape?"

"Who told you that? Who?" cried the prince. "Suvorov!" And he
jerked away his plate, which Tikhon briskly caught. "Suvorov!...
Consider, Prince Andrew. Two... Frederick and Suvorov; Moreau!...
Moreau would have been a prisoner if Suvorov had had a free hand; but
he had the Hofs-kriegs-wurst-schnapps-Rath on his hands. It would have
puzzled the devil himself! When you get there you'll find out what
those Hofs-kriegs-wurst-Raths are! Suvorov couldn't manage them so
what chance has Michael Kutúzov? No, my dear boy," he continued,
"you and your generals won't get on against Buonaparte; you'll
have to call in the French, so that birds of a feather may fight
together. The German, Pahlen, has been sent to New York in America, to
fetch the Frenchman, Moreau," he said, alluding to the invitation made
that year to Moreau to enter the Russian service.... "Wonderful!...
Were the Potemkins, Suvorovs, and Orlovs Germans? No, lad, either you
fellows have all lost your wits, or I have outlived mine. May God help
you, but we'll see what will happen. Buonaparte has become a great
commander among them! Hm!..."

"I don't at all say that all the plans are good," said Prince
Andrew, "I am only surprised at your opinion of Bonaparte. You
may laugh as much as you like, but all the same Bonaparte is a great
general!"

"Michael Ivanovich!" cried the old prince to the architect who,
busy with his roast meat, hoped he had been forgotten: "Didn't
I tell you Buonaparte was a great tactician? Here, he says the same
thing."

"To be sure, your excellency," replied the architect.

The prince again laughed his frigid laugh.

"Buonaparte was born with a silver spoon in his mouth. He has got
splendid soldiers. Besides he began by attacking Germans. And only
idlers have failed to beat the Germans. Since the world began everybody
has beaten the Germans. They beat no one-except one another. He made
his reputation fighting them."

And the prince began explaining all the blunders which, according to
him, Bonaparte had made in his campaigns and even in politics. His
son made no rejoinder, but it was evident that whatever arguments were
presented he was as little able as his father to change his opinion. He
listened, refraining from a reply, and involuntarily wondered how this
old man, living alone in the country for so many years, could know and
discuss so minutely and acutely all the recent European military and
political events.

"You think I'm an old man and don't understand the present state
of affairs?" concluded his father. "But it troubles me. I don't
sleep at night. Come now, where has this great